# Urban Discovery System

Welcome to the Urban Discovery System (UDS), your gateway to finding the perfect city tailored to your preferences. UDS employs advanced algorithms to provide you with a curated list of cities that match your criteria. Whether you are looking for a place with a low cost of living, specific climate conditions, or other personalized preferences, UDS is here to assist you. Below is a comprehensive guide on how to make the most out of the Urban Discovery System and discover the city that suits you best.

---


# User’s Manual

## Welcome to the Urban Discovery System!

Our application can help you find the perfect city for you. To get started, please use a browser and navigate to the site [https://uds.ddns.net/](https://uds.ddns.net/). You will see two options: one to search and one to browse cities. The search will allow you to select criteria based on your preferences, and our algorithm will return a list of the most viable cities that you can consider. The browse feature allows you to search through city information at your convenience without any particular preferences.

## Searching for a City:

To start a simple search, start selecting criteria under the **“What are you looking For in a City”** headline. There are initially 5 traits (the first one being ‘Low Cost of Living’) which you can choose to include in our algorithmic search. If you would like these factors to be considered, please select them by clicking on the checkbox. For any of these traits/preferences, or future ones, you can indicate the top 3 that matter to you by selecting them with the star located next to them. You can only select 3, and our algorithm will prioritize these in the search.

Next, there are 4 scalable traits which you can customize. You can select a lower bound and an upper bound. For example, if you want to find a city which has a low population, you can keep the left slider at 0 and adjust the right slider so that it lands on a value close to 0. This will indicate that you want a city with very little people.

After setting these preferences, you can select the annual snowfall and rainfall as part of the climate preferences. The options are in the dropdown menu. You can then choose to include your preferred occupation and politics. This selection will take into account the job opportunities available for your indicated job and also consider the politics of the city before presenting them to you. All of these selections are optional.

Once you are finished with these selections and preferences, you can click the **“SUBMIT”** button to generate a list of the cities, which will be shown on the city cards. If you want to clear the form, simply click the **“CLEAR”** button. This will delete all your search criteria, and you can start over. You can also refresh the browser if you’d like to, but this will delete all the data for the entire form.

When you’ve generated the list, there will be 10 cities that match your preferences listed in the order of highest viability to lowest. A city picture (generated by AI) is next to the city card. Each city card has an AI generated summary for you to view that is unique to your selected criteria and could be useful in distilling the information for your choice. Each city card also contains the **‘city details’** button. When you click the city details button, you are able to see all the stats about the city that our application has compiled for you.

After the list is generated, you are able to view these cities on the map below the selection criteria and compare the locations with one another. At any point in time, you can navigate to the help, about us, and credits tabs to view this information.

## Browsing Cities:

For browsing cities, you can select the **‘BROWSE’** button and navigate inside the map to select cities you wish to view. When you click on a city, you will see the city summary, as well as an option to view the exact statistics and details below the city card. Use this tool to explore cities that you were interested in.

Thank you for using UDS, we hope you have found your dream city!






# Installing UDS Locally - Urban Discovery System

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.\
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).


# Data Ingestion

To load up a fresh version of the database, simply run
`./python/full_ingestion.py`

To run any individual ingestion scripts, first run
`pip install -r requirements.txt` 
followed by
`./python/{ingestion_script_here}.py`
Note that `cities.py` needs to be run first before any of the other scripts will function.
